Hey everyone and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to be talking about moving selections and why you would want to do that.
Well you can think of a selection almost like a stencil that you can reuse in different positions.
But of course once you've made a selection it is sometimes very difficult to remake the same selection
again.
So using that same selection and moving it to another location can have its benefits.
First of all course we're going to need an image to get going some going to create myself a new image
at 32 by 32 minute zoom all the way in.
There we go.
Now of course there are going to be several ways of generating your particular selection itself.
In this example I'm going to use the circle the Ellipse selection tool and generate myself a perfect
circle.
I'm going to recreate something like the moon and I'm going to move the selection about now obviously
with the Ellipse select.
I've got the option to move around the selection as I'm making it.
There we go.
Now fills up most of the area so that is obviously one way of moving it.
But once we start using the Selection we're going to lose the ability to move it around like that anymore.
So I'm going to go to my layers and create a new layer and I'm going to call this I'm going to do another
moon.
I like the moon.
I'm going to find in a yellowy colour.
Initially I can obviously refine this later and I'm going to go to the paint brush tool and because
we've now gone to a different talk you can see the manipulation widgets that were around the Ellipse
selector that have now gone.
I'm just going to colour that in yellow as you'd expect that's now coloured in.
Now I have deliberately when I was doing that left it on the tool options and he Alea it.
So I get a slightly fuzzy edge when I'm colouring that in.
So now that we've got this particular tool here what else can we do.
Well what we can do is we can invert that and use it as a mask.
So I'm going to invert that now and after I've inverted it I'm going to create myself a new layer and
I'm going to call this the Moon mask.
Oh the moon mashed.
There we go.
Moon Musk now with the inverted selection I can go in and I can colour it in any colour for the sake
of argument.
I'm going to colour in black for the moment.
I'm going to use the fill tool just to fill that in.
So I've now got a circle and I've also got a mask.
Now I'm going to create another layer and I'm going to call this the terminate or where we go at the
basically the black end where where it's light and where it's not.
Now I'm not going to go all the way down to black.
I'm going to go to my pallet itself and select a dark grey.
Now with the selection I'm going to invert that selection again control and I.
And I'm going to move that selection.
So we've got a selection now that we can use again in order to have an effect.
Now if I go to my move tool and start moving.
What will happen is the moon the active layer will move instead and undo that.
Of course if you grab the mask layer that I've created.
Well that will move instead as well.
So how do we move this selection.
Well if we go to the tool options we will see that there is a couple of options when it comes to moving
at the very top.
It's currently selected on layer.
Now we change that to the Red Square which is the selection move tool.
Now we can grab and move our selection and I can move that across ever so slightly.
So maybe here and then with the Terminator selected I can go back to my paint brush tool and paint that
in.
Now that might be a little bit strong so I can come out and instead of doing that perhaps use the airbrush
tool in starting here.
There we go.
Let's have it a bit more like that as we go.
Now I've got my legs in the wrong order here.
So instead of having my terminator beneath the moon mask is a barb so I can move that up.
And there we go we've got a nice Chris edge in looking at my icon at the top.
Well that is almost there but not quite.
What else can we do.
Well we can grow the selection itself so that this circle that I have is the original selection is slightly
larger because that is too strong of a cut off.
In fact with the leap that Terminator and I deem it rubbish and make it different one time I go to my
selection I'm going to grow my selection by how many pixels I don't want to try five and then grabbing
the move tool making sure its on selection move that a cross that looks a bit better.
Im going to go back in and grow it by another five and then move its cross.
Yes I'm liking that not as a strong curve moving across I'm going to use my airbrush tool again and
come in.
There we go.
And of course I just have the hold still in one place in order for that to work.
And I'm liking how that's looking.
What I'm not liking of course is the it's such a harsh boundary between my selection and what I'm trying
to paint on.
So I'm going to go and blur the edge of my selection and we can do that with the Select Tool and with
the feather this will blur the border so it's a bit smoother.
How many pixels.
Well probably three or so.
Now when we come in and do that you can see that I've now got access to more of the area that's not
selected in fact three pixels are now available.
I'm going to feather that again by in a further three pixels and we can see it doesn't go any further
than those three pixels so it's not an additive process.
It is exactly three pixels.
So if I go to Feather here if I wanted it six I'd have to type in six.
And now that should go out a little further as we can see here all the way out to the sixth pixel from
our selection.
And that itself looks much much better.
And now our loads are things you could use selections like this for.
So we've taken a general shape like a circle.
Of course you could use that for a drop shadow and several other things as well.
Thinking outside the box and being creative with it can get you some really amazing results.
So we have grown this selection now and one of the things that I might have done by growing it is destroy
the selection.
Let's see if that has happened so I'm going to go to some mice electable now and this time shrink it
and I'm going to shrink it back down by six pixels.
And yes you can see here there's not much of it left unfortunately when it's expanded out to the layer
boundary it has effectively destroyed itself.
We've we've seen this before and there's really no way of recovering that said something to bear in
mind that if you expand it too much.
Of course you may run into these issues now.
I remember when I was creating my initial selection which I can now go and do again and it was just
these adjusted in one on each side in fact a clip probably done that by just grabbing the two opposite
and there we go that's the same selection again.
So being able to recreate your selection is quite important.
But what I want to show you now is of course I've shown you how to grow the selection we can of course
shrink the selection as well.
Oh I missed.
They're clicking on one.
One place and missing my selection.
There we go.
So we can go to the select menu and go down to shrink.
And when we do that we get a similar How much do you want to shrink it by and transferring it by in
this case six pixels and then on another layer I could for instance make a and an error at a high lights.
Now this might be a bull's eye or something else that you're making.
And I'm going to go for a light grey here then go to the paint brush still and just fill that in.
So there we go.
There's lots of options that you can do with the selection tool.
And again I've got feathering turned on here because I want it to be slightly hazy.
If I did not want that one I had to make the original selection remember.
I would have had to go to my tool options and turn off that anti-aliasing.
And we've got feather edges on top of there as well.
If we wanted to if we turn that on we get the radius that we had before.
When we're modifying the selection we can actually have a feathered radius from the very beginning as
well.
If you want to and that about wraps up this lecture on using selection tools manipulating them moving
them and using them more or less like a stencil and using them to generate new imagery and we'll get
to test your knowledge shortly.
But that'll be over in the next lecture.